## Runesmith 2 2026-06-11 Changelog (v0.5.0)

### Balances
- Backup Battery adjusted: Moved to Uncommon. Gain 1 Energy. Gain 2(3) of each Element. Exhaust.
- White Balance reworked: Moved to Common. Deal 8(11) damage. If you have at least 1 of each Element, gain 1 Energy.
- Catalytic Converter adjusted: Upgrade now reduces cost by 1 instead of upgrading elements gain.
- Aetus buffed: 3(4) ⇒ 4(6) Charges.
- Morbus nerfed: 3(4) ⇒ 2(3) Charges.
- Quick Charge adjusted: Cost 1 ⇒ 0. Give 3(4) Charges ⇒ 2(3) Charges.
- Overload buffed: Give 2(3) Charges ⇒ Give 3(4) Charges.
- Heat Exchange reworked: Gain 1 Ignis for each enemy. Deal 8(11) damage to ALL enemies.
- Chroma Chisel adjusted: Deal 7(9) damage. Gain 1 of each Element. Gain 2(3) Amp.
  - Getting more elements on upgrade was too strong of an upgrade so now it's more focused on Amp instead.
- Prism buffed: Draw 1(2) card ⇒ Draw 2(3) cards.
  - Additional card draw to help repays the cost of playing this card (it can be hard to play).
- Hammer Tornado adjusted: Deal 10(13) damage. Hits an additional time for each Rune.
  - There's already Overload for getting value from the number of charges on the Rune.
- Shining Hammer adjusted: Deal 11(15) damage. (Upgrade no longer increase enhance amount to 2)
- Notes:
  - White Balance and Heat Exchange have been reworked due to their designs being overlapped with Laser Turret (damage based on elements gain)

### Misc
- Changed values in cards to be less hard coded.
  - Should improve compatibility with mods that mess with card's dynamic vars.
- Runesonance will no longer glow gold when there's Rune (which is most of the time). It's not important to have special indication for it.

### Bug Fixes
- Fixed Iron Supplement (potion) showing Elements hover tip instead of Enhance tip.
- Fixed hover tips for Teleport and Energy Sink.
- Fixed enhance tab on cards messing with card input.
- Fixed elements cost on cards messing with card input.
- Fixed Rune not tinting dark when out of charge in certain cases.
- Fixed Architect's Forge enchant reward not filtering cards correctly.

### Loc Updates
- cards.json
  - Updated the loc for the following cards due to balance changes:
    - BACKUP_BATTERY
    - WHITE_BALANCE
    - HEAT_EXCHANGE
    - HAMMER_TORNADO
  - Adjusted the usage of variable in following cards:
    - CATALYTIC_CONVERTER
    - FORTIFY
    - REINFORCE
    - POWERED_ANVIL
    - WILDFIRE
  - Replaced all these formatting (can just do search + replace):
    - `EnhanceBy:plural` ⇒ `EnhanceBy:rs2Plural`
    - `Charge:plural` ⇒ `Charge:rs2Plural`
  - Misc fixes:
    - SYNTHETIC_BLOOD
      - removed `-` in `(Order: ignis - terra - aqua)`